already the first wave of workers is
moving into the forest they follow
chemical trails that lasts for about a
day laid down by the answer head of them
their new home is in a hollow at the
base of a fallen tree but the property
is still only a building site
construction workers enlarge the area
while ground workers shift debris from
the main chamber these tiny creatures
are strong each is carrying a load that
in human terms would be more than enough
for an Olympic weightlifter together
they'll shift up to 80 pounds of soil in
a couple of days
and they'll have to work fast for the
main colony is beginning to trickle in
from the old nest site when they enter
the new chamber some of the workers
linked together to form long Garland's
of ants that join floor-to-ceiling
they start to form a protective bivouac
shaped like a large round basket inside
the nests Hollow and the whole structure
will be made entirely of living ads or
they're waiting for now is enough
workers to fill the gaps
between the old nest and the new road
gangs prepare the route along which the
rest of the colony will Trek they
excavate build embankments and dig
tunnels always trying to keep themselves
hidden from you they clear the highway
of large pieces of soil that might slow
down the traffic and a hungry workforce
must eat due to their enormous jaws the
larger ones can't feed themselves so
smaller and spoon feed them
but first they must catch the food the
advance party has uncovered earthworms
from under the leaf litter
the ants search for weak points between
segments their feelers constantly
tasting and touching
when they found the right spot their
jaws closed with the equivalent force of
a car-crushing machine and one worm
becomes too it's being divided into
handy chunks and then hauled back to
camp
[Music]